---
layout: page
title: Clinic
tagline: Directorship and Projects Advised
group: navigation
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Engineering Clinic
The Engineering Clinic Program started in 1963. It is a sponsored Third-/Fourth-Year capstone project course.
A good deal of information can be found [here](https://www.hmc.edu/clinic/).
A brief history can be found [here](https://www.hmc.edu/clinic/history-of-the-clinic-program/). Clinic 
has grown from its start in Engineering to include Computer Science, Physics, Math, and a
Global Program. The concept of Clinic has been copied widely but was radically different 
from the prevailing engineering pedagogy in 1963.

Each student-led project has a Faculty Advisor who is a coach or a mentor to the team,
and not a typical Principal Investigator. However, the Faculty Advisor typically learns
as much as the students do about the sponsor and the project. I've put both information about
my time as Engineering Clinic Director and about the projects for which I've been the Faculty Advisor.

## Engineering Clinic Director
From July 2010 to July 2015 I was the Engineering Clinic Director. The Engineering Clinic Director's
primary responsibility is recruiting of Clinic Projects for the students. The total number
of projects required varies from year to year depending on the number of Engineering Majors.
During my time the count in Engineering varied between 20 and 26. The total annual budget
for the Engineering Clinic Program is in excess of $1,000,000. I am happy to discuss the details
of the budgeting on an individual basis.

Barry Olsan, the Director of Corporate Relations initiates contact with most of the sponsors.
Once he has a potential sponsor willing to either meet or or have a teleconference, the
Engineering Clinic Director gets involved for the site visit or teleconference. A good
fraction of my time was spent on site visits and teleconferences. The Clinic Director 
helps the sponsors edit the project statements and get the business agreement in place.
The Clinic Director then assigns the students and the Faculty Advisors to the teams, and
deals with the logistics.

I had the great benefit of having [David Harris](http://pages.hmc.edu/harris/)
as the Associate Director for the first two
years, [Qimin Yang](https://www.hmc.edu/about-hmc/hmc-experts/yang-qimin/)
as the Associate Director for the next two years, and [Lori Bassman](http://pages.hmc.edu/bassman/) as
the Associate Director for the final year. My job would have been impossible without the support
of Lorena Gonzalez, the Engineering Clinic Program Coordinator, and the rest of the
Engineering support staff.

My time as Engineering Clinic Director gave me both practice at and great insight
into what it takes to manage a $1,000,000 program.

## Clinics I've Advised
Again, the Faculty Advisor  is a coach or a mentor to the team,
and not a  Principal Investigator. Nevertheless, I've learned a great deal from the projects I've
advised and I've learned a lot more engineering than I otherwise would have.

<style>
th, td {
    padding:  0px 10px;
}
</style>

<table>
	<tr>
		<th>Year</th> <th>Sponsor</th> <th>Title</th>
	</tr>
	<tr><td>2017/2018</td> <td>Ceremod Inc.</td> <td>Deep Brain Cooling</td></tr>
	<tr><td>2015/2016</td> <td>BiMBy</td> <td>Big Mass Battery: Engineering Challenges and Feasibility</td></tr>
	<tr><td>2015/2016</td> <td>AT&T (DIRECTV)</td> <td>Smartphone-Powered DIRECTV Antenna Installation</td></tr>
	<tr><td>2014/2015</td> <td>Rocketry Organization of California</td> <td>Multi-Channel Wireless Launch Controller</td></tr>
	<tr><td>2013/2014</td> <td>Project A Cappella</td> <td>Characterization of Acoustic Noise Generated by Capacitors on Printed Circuit Boards</td></tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2012/2013</td> <td>Los Alamos National Laboratory</td> <td>Monitoring and Management Strategy for Liquid Cooling of LANL’s Data Center</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2011/2012</td> <td>Paramount Pictures</td> <td>Implementing Regenerative Braking on Launched Roller Coasters</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2010/2011</td> <td>Los Alamos National Laboratory</td> <td>Construction of X-ray Diagnostic Subsystems</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2010/2011</td> <td>M2 Renewables, Inc.</td> <td>Mechanical De-watering Device</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2008/2009</td> <td>Cobham; Sargent Fletcher Inc.</td> <td>Design of Test Firing Apparatus for Pneumatic Ejection Racks</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2007/2008</td> <td>Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory</td> <td>Optimizing a Water-Based Muon Detecto</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2006/2007</td> <td>Edwards Air Force Base</td> <td>Design and Construction of a Dynamic Long Range Laser Telemetry System</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2006/2007</td> <td>Honeywell International, Inc.</td> <td>Pressure Drop Characterization of Congealed Oil Flow in Compact Heat Exchangers</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2005/2006</td> <td>Edwards Air Force Base</td> <td>Design and Construction of an Optical Telemetry System</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2005/2006</td> <td>Southwest Research Institute (SwRI)</td> <td>Designing a Low Power and Lightweight Digital Camera Array</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2004/2005</td> <td>Lockheed Martin Advanced Technology Center</td> <td>Creating a Computer-Controlled Active Tracking Heliostat</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2004/2005</td> <td>Northrop Grumman Navigation Systems</td> <td>External Fiber Optic Modulator</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2003/2004</td> <td>Bourns, Inc.</td> <td>Development of Lead and Cadmium Free Thick-Film Resistors</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2003/2004</td> <td>Grobecker Associates & The Center for Environmental Studies</td> <td>Design of an Organic Waste Bioreactor</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2002/2003</td> <td>The Boeing Company/Phantom Works</td> <td>Quest for a World Record in Laser-Based Wireless Power Transmission</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>2000/2001</td> <td>Loma Linda University Medical Center</td> <td>Sequential Alignment and Positioning Verification System for Functional Proton Radiosurgery</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1999/2000</td> <td>Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL)</td> <td>Infrared Interferometer</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1999/2000</td> <td>The Boeing Company/ES&MD, Marine Systems</td> <td>A Thermal Control Method for the IFOG Navigation System</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1998/1999</td> <td>Center for Integration of Medicine and Innovative Technology (CIMIT)</td> <td>Minimally Invasive System for Detecting Hepatic Shock</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1998/1999</td> <td>Eastman Kodak Company</td> <td>High Speed Digital Video Disk Array Recorder</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1997/1998</td> <td>Orbital Sciences</td> <td>NIR Spectrometer</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1996/1997</td> <td>Accel Technologies, Inc</td> <td>Transforming Electronic Components into a Usable Form</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1995/1996</td> <td>Aerojet Electrosystems</td> <td>Design of Low Cost 3-Axis Stabilized Platform</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1995/1996</td> <td>Science Applications International Corporation</td> <td>Design of a Reaction Block for an Automated Combinatorial-Chemistry System</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1993/1994</td> <td>Northrop Grumman Corporation</td> <td>Novel Tooling Technologies Applied to Battle Damage Repair of Composite Structures</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1993/1994</td> <td>Southern California Edison</td> <td>High Albedo Paint Additives for Air Conditioning Energy Conservation</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1991/1992</td> <td>Aerojet Electrosystems</td> <td>Metal Hydride Compressor Characterization</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1991/1992</td> <td>Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR)</td> <td>Development of the Experimental Space-Based Centrifuge</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1990/1991</td> <td>Aerojet Electrosystems</td> <td>Vanadium Hydride Compressor Characterization</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1990/1991</td> <td>Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR)</td> <td>Space Based Fluorimeter</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1989/1990</td> <td>General Dynamics/ San Diego</td> <td>Fast Optical Switch</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>1988/1989</td> <td>Southern California Edison</td> <td>Ultraviolet Curing</td>
	</tr>
</table>
